alzheimer
alzheimer's disease is a type of dementia that causes problems with memory, thinking and behavior and symptoms usually develop slowly and get worse over time, becoming severe enough to interfere with daily tasks.
confusion, speech difficulties, personality change, hallucinations, anxiety
currently no cure.
currently no cure.
physiological treatment (stimulation therapy).
bronchitis
bronchitis is an inflammation of the lining of your bronchial tubes, which carry air to and from your lungs, people who have bronchitis often cough up thickened mucus, which can be discolored, bronchitis may be either acute or chronic.
severe coughing, fever, blood mucus, hearth condition.
antibiotics.
honey and lemon.
best is to wait for a couple of weeks until the disease clears up, rest up and drink plenty of fluids
chickenpox
chickenpox is an infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It causes an itchy rash with small, fluid-filled blisters, chickenpox is highly contagious to people who haven't had the disease or been vaccinated against it.
spots (in the body, face, scalp, chest, and arms and leg), feeling sick, high temperature, aching, headache, loss of appetite
paracetamol.
honey, apple vinegar, oatmeal, and lavender oil.
self-quarantine, usually gets better as time passed and make sure to rest and stay hydrated, use cool clothing and cool water to help the body.
asthma
asthma is a condition in which your airways narrow and swell and may produce extra mucus, this can make breathing difficult and trigger coughing, a whistling sound (wheezing) when you breathe out and shortness of breath.
wheezing, shortness of breath, tight chest, cough
reliever inhalers (contains Short-acting beta2-agonist), Ipratropium. 
honey, apple vinegar, oatmeal, and lavender oil.
avoid heavy movement activity, if asthma attack occur stay calm and take long deep breaths and seek medical help if needed. 
migraines
migraines are a recurring type of headache, they cause moderate to severe pain that is throbbing or pulsing, the pain is often on one side of your head. You may also have other symptoms, such as nausea and weakness, you may be sensitive to light and sound.
Pain on one side of the head, pulsating pain, nausea, vomiting, light sensitivity, and headache when moving. 
currently no cure, but painkiller help reduce symptoms.
ginger, lavender oil, food containing omega-3 amino acids.
transcranial magnetic stimulation.
dengue Fever
dengue (pronounced DENgee) fever is a painful, debilitating mosquito-borne disease caused by any one of four closely related dengue viruses, hese viruses are related to the viruses that cause West Nile infection and yellow fever.
high fever, headache, pain in eyes, muscle paint, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, skin rash, bleeding (nose and gum)
no specific medicine to treat dengue infection, but  pain relievers with acetaminophen could help.
echinacea, papaya leave, Gelang susu, and food containing vitamin-c.
drink plenty of water and rest up, if complication continue seek medicine from a doctor.
flu
it’s a super-contagious virus that can make you feel miserable, doctors call it influenza, its symptoms are usually more serious than the sneezes and stuffy nose that you tend to get from a common cold.
fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose, muscle ache, headaches, and fatigue
antiviral medicines (pills, liquid, an inhaled powder, or an intravenous solution)
honey, ginger, Elderberry syrups, propolis, Essential oils, garlic, bone broth.
stay at home, get plenty of rest and avoid contact with other people
kidney stones 
kidney stones (also called renal calculi, nephrolithiasis or urolithiasis) are hard deposits made of minerals and salts that form inside your kidneys, passing kidney stones can be quite painful, but the stones usually cause no permanent damage if they're recognized in a timely fashion.
severe back pain, side pain, abdomen and groin pain, pain in urinating, red urine, cloudy urine, persistent need to urine, nausea, fever and chills
pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve).
drinking water enough water, 1.8 – 3.6 a day, other herbal medicine such as lemon juice, basil juice, apple cider vinegar may help. 
medical therapy, your doctor may give you a medication to help pass your kidney stone, this type of medication, known as an alpha blocker, relaxes the muscles in your ureter, helping you pass the kidney stone more quickly and with less pain.
diabetes 
diabetes is a condition that impairs the body’s ability to process blood glucose, otherwise known as blood sugar.
urinating often, feeling very thirsty, hungry after eating, fatigue, blurry vision, slow healing bruises, weight loss, pain in hands and feet
there is no cure for diabetes, but people who suffer from it may take medicines such as sulphonylureas (increases the amount of insulin produced by your pancreas), pioglitazone (makes your body’s cells more sensitive to insulin, so that more glucose is taken from your blood), gliptins (works by preventing the breakdown of a natural hormone known as GLP-1, which helps the body to produce insulin in response to high blood glucose levels). insulin can help to keep blood sugar from becoming to high, so its recommended to anyone that suffer from diabetes to carry insulin wherever they go.
Drinking water enough water, 1.8 – 3.6 a day, other herbal medicine such as lemon juice, basil juice, apple cider vinegar may help. make sure to eat healthy food and exercise regularly. 
insulin remains the mainstay of treatment for patients with type 1 diabetes and it is also important therapy for type 2 diabetes when blood glucose levels cannot be controlled by diet, weight loss, exercise, and oral medications
sore throat
a sore throat is pain, scratchiness or irritation of the throat that often worsens when you swallow, the most common cause of a sore throat (pharyngitis) is a viral infection, such as a cold or the flu, a sore throat caused by a virus resolves on its own.
throat pain, difficulty swallowing, pain while talking, sore jaw, swollen tonsils, patches in tonsils, muffled voice, fever, cough, body ache.
best is to wait until its gone, to help with pain try taking acetaminophen (tylenol, others) or other mild pain relievers. 
drink enough water and try to humidify the water. comforting food and beverage such as warm honey-water and ice pops, gargling saltwater then spitting it could also help, also Slippery elm, liquorice root, and marshmallow root are some of herbal medicine that could help.
rest for five to seven days until the pain is gone, make sure to take antibiotics that is prescribed by the doctor.
high blood pressure
high blood pressure is a common condition in which the long-term force of the blood against your artery walls is high enough that it may eventually cause health problems, such as heart disease.
shortness of breath, headaches, nosebleeds
thiazide diuretics (help to eliminate sodium and water in your body), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (help relax blood vessels by blocking the formation of a natural chemical that narrows blood vessels), angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) (help relax blood vessels by blocking the action, not the formation, of a natural chemical that narrows blood vessels), calcium channel blocker (help relax the muscles of your blood vessels).
basil, cinnamon, cardamom, flax seed, garlic, ginger, hawthorn, celery seed.
try having a low-salt diet and maintain healthy life by exercising and staying active.
high uric acid level
uric acid is a heterocyclic compound of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen with the formula C5H4N4O3, it forms ions and salts known as urates and acid urates, such as ammonium acid urate, uric acid is a product of the metabolic breakdown of purine nucleotides, and it is a normal component of urine.
joints pain, join stiffness, moving difficulty, swelling, misshapen join. 
drugs called xanthine oxidase inhibitors (XOIs), including allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) and febuxostat (Uloric), limit the amount of uric acid your body makes, this may lower your blood's uric acid level and reduce your risk of gout. Side effects of allopurinol include a rash and low blood counts. 
apple, lime, food with high vitamin c and fibre, olive oil, bananas, and vegetables juice
try to keep your uric acid low by avoiding sugary food and beverages, alcohol and food with high purines such as meats and beans, keep drinking water and try to lose weight by exercising regularly. If you are stress out try to calm down and rest as they will increase uric acid level.
jaundice
jaundice is the yellowish discoloration of the skin, mucous membranes and the whites of the eyes (sclerae) caused by elevated levels of bilirubin in the blood (hyperbilirubinemia).
fever, fussy eating, looking ill, yellow skin, high-pitch crying, seizures
jaunice for adult isn’t as risky as for infants. Treatment for jaundice in infants include phototherapy, tanning booths, and other treatments. 
iron rich food are recommended such as beans and lentils, tofu, cashew, whole-grain bread, egg, and liver.
anemia-induced jaundice may be treated by boosting the amount of iron in the blood by either taking iron supplements or eating more iron-rich foods, hepatitis-induced jaundice requires antiviral or steroid medications.
tuberculosis
tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacteria usually attack the lungs, but they can also damage other parts of the body, tuberculosis spreads through the air when a person with TB of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, or talks.
cough, weight loss, loss of appetite, coughing of blood, weakness, fever, night sweat
Isoniazid,Rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane), Ethambutol (Myambutol), Pyrazinamide. Tuberculosis medicine and antibiotics need to be taken for a long time, consult doctor for the length and prescription. 
yogurt, garlic, orange juice, black pepper.
people that suffers from tuberculosis need to take their TB drugs until the full course of therapy is finished based on the doctor prescription.
genital Herpes
herpes is an infection caused by HSV (herpes simplex virus), this virus affects the external genitalia, anal region, mucosal surfaces, and skin in other parts of the body.
itching in genitals, burning in genitals, vaginal discharge, feeling of pressure in the abdominal, red bump around the genitals, headache, muscle ache, painful urination, swollen glands in the groin
no drug can get rid of the herpes virus. Doctors may prescribe an antiviral, such as acyclovir, which prevents the virus from multiplying.
food that are rich in vitamin-c (vegetables and fruits), omega-3 fatty (fishes), L-lysine (turkey, fish, chicken, and legumes), and coconut oil may help. 
bathing in lightly salted water helps relieve symptoms and applying petroleum jelly to the affected area.
pneunomia
pneumonia is a lung infection that can range from mild to so severe that you have to go to the hospital, it happens when an infection causes the air sacs in your lungs (your doctor will call them alveoli) to fill with fluid or pus, that can make it hard for you to breathe in enough oxygen to reach your bloodstream
chest pain, pain when breathing, mucus in cough, fever, sweating, nausea, shortness of breath
macrolide antibiotics, fluoroquinolones (not recommended for young children), and tetracyclines.
many warm herbal teas can help soothe a scratchy throat, but herbs (i.e. peppermint and eucalyptus) may be more beneficial. Eucalyptus and tea tree oils may also help relieve coughs, a warm saltwater gargle may help eliminate mucus or germs in the throat, which may provide some relief.
pneumonia takes time to recover. You’re going to need lots of rest. You might need a week off your usual routines, and you could still feel tired for a month. Make sure to consume the medicine that is prescribe by the doctor.
gastrointestinal infections 
gastrointestinal infections are viral, bacterial or parasitic infections that cause gastroenteritis, an inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract involving both the stomach and the small intestine, symptoms include diarrhea, vomiting, and abdominal pain
nausea, vomiting, fever, loss of appetite, muscle aches, dehydration, headache, mucus or blood in the stool, weight loss
treatment for gastrointestinal infection includes taking antibiotics and staying hydrated. Common antibiotics used to treat gastrointestinal infection are penicillin, cephalosporin, antifolate / sulfa combinations, nitroimidazole, penem, glycopeptide, and monobactam antibiotics.
ginger water, peppermint tea, and lemon juice
drink plenty of water, especially after bouts of diarrhea and try to eat little and often, also consume foods or drinks with potassium, such as fruit juice and bananas and try to avoid consuming dairy or high-fibre foods, Make sure to rest while recovering.
rabies
rabies is a deadly virus spread to people from the saliva of infected animals. The rabies virus is usually transmitted through a bite. Once a person begins showing signs and symptoms of rabies, the disease nearly always causes death. For this reason, anyone who may have a risk of contracting rabies should receive rabies vaccinations for protection.
excessive salivation, difficulty swallowing water, hallucinations, insomnia, partial paralysis, agitation, anxiety, confusion, hyperactivity, fever, headache, nausea, vomiting
once a rabies infection is established, there's no effective treatment. Though a small number of people have survived rabies, the disease usually causes death, for that reason, if you think you've been exposed to rabies, you must get a series of shots to prevent the infection from taking hold.
herbal medicine can’t help with this type of disease, even though some said it can be cured by herbal medicine but in truth it can’t and won’t help someone that suffer from this disease.
the best action to do is to get rabies vaccination for yourself and pets that you own as the disease it self has no cure, the best you can do is prevent yourself from getting it by getting vaccinated.  
osteoporosis
osteoporosis is a bone disease that occurs when the body loses too much bone, makes too little bone, or both. As a result, bones become weak and may break from a fall or, in serious cases, from sneezing or minor bumps.
bone broke easily, stooped posture, lost of height, back pain
bisphosphonates (slow the rate that bone is broken down in your body), SERMs (help to maintain bone density and reduce the risk of fracture, particularly of the spine), Parathyroid hormone (produced naturally in the body. It regulates the amount of calcium in bone), calcium and vitamin D supplements
food with high calcium, protein, and vitamin d are great for people who suffer from osteoporosis 
best is for you to exercise regularly and have a healthy diet that is rich in calcium and nutrients.
cataract
a cataract is a clouding of the normally clear lens of your eye. For people who have cataracts, seeing through cloudy lenses is a bit like looking through a frosty or fogged-up window.
clouded vision, difficulty in vision at night, fading of colours, double vision, frequent changes in glasses prescription, cant see the screen, what am I seeing
most doctor will prescribe glasses to people with cataract, but for better result they will need to get a surgery.
other recommendations may include herbal medicines like taking turmeric to reduce inflammation, or consuming bilberry (an herb rich in antioxidants) may reduce risk or prevent cataracts.
surgery is the best option to effectively treat cataract, make sure to consult a doctor before getting one. 
hiv
the human immunodeficiency viruses (HIV) are two species of Lentivirus (a subgroup of retrovirus) that infect humans. Over time, they cause acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a condition in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
mouth ulcers, swollen lymph nodes, fatigue, sore throat, muscle aches, night sweat, rash, chills, rash
the treatment for HIV is called antiretroviral therapy (ART). ART involves taking a combination of HIV medicines (called an HIV treatment regimen) every day. ART can’t cure HIV, but HIV medicines help people with HIV live longer, healthier lives.
herbal medications should be used with caution. There isn’t enough evidence to support the use of these drugs for relieving HIV symptoms, however, a brief course of certain herbs may support immunity in people with HIV, research has shown that milk thistle is one example, milk thistle is a common herb used in people to improve liver function and does not interact significantly with antivirals. Keep in mind though that other herbs may interact with conventional HIV treatments.
people with HIV must and need to take their medical prescription as intended by the doctor, this may help the life of infected people. If the medications are hard to take consult doctor for help. 
anemia
anemia is defined as a low number of red blood cells. In a routine blood test, anemia is reported as a low hemoglobin or hematocrit.
growth problem, Shortness of breath, pale skin, cold hand, cold feet, tiredness
treatment for anemia differ based on its type, for example Iron deficiency anemia is treated by taking iron supplements and changing diet, but vitamin deficiency anemia is treated by taking folic acid and vitamin C. for better understanding its recommended to visit a doctor if you have similar symptomps. 
the best diet plan for anemia includes foods rich in iron and other vitamins essential to hemoglobin and red blood cell production. Some food that are recommended are leafy greens (spinach and kale), meat, liver, and seafood.
the most common type is iron-deficiency anemia, it sometimes develops due to a diet lacking in nutrients, Crohn’s disease, or the use of certain medications. A doctor can use a CBC blood test to help detect anemia and the treatment varies. However, for some people with anemia, dietary changes can resolve the issue.
mouth ulcers 
mouth ulcers are painful sores that appear in the mouth, although they're uncomfortable, they’re usually harmless and most clear up by themselves within a week or two.
white sore in mouth, yellow sore in mouth, grey sore in mouth, white sore in lips, yellow sore in lips, grey sore in lips, white sore in tongue, yellow sore in tongue, grey sore in tongue
antimicrobial mouthwash may speed up healing and prevent infection of the ulcer, Painkillers are available as a mouthwash, lozenge, gel or spray, it can sting on first use and your mouth may feel numb – but this is temporary also Corticosteroid lozenges may reduce pain and speed up healing.
honey, mulethi powder, triphala, mishri, coconut oil, aloe vera juice.
try avoiding food and drink that is hard, spicy, salty, acidic, or hot until it heals, also using a toothpaste that doesn’t contain sodium lauryl sulphate, as this may be irritating							
Insomnia 
Insomnia is difficulty getting to sleep or staying asleep for long enough to feel refreshed the next morning. Occasional episodes of insomnia may come and go without causing any serious problems, but for some people it can last for months or even years at a time.
hard to fall asleep, inconsistent hour of sleep, cant fall asleep, waking up several times at night, not feeling fresh after waking up, feeling tired at day time, hard to nap during day
sleeping tablets (hypnotics), medications that encourage sleep.
try to set regular time to sleep and wake up, relax before sleeping and avoid consuming caffein before going to bed.
Make an appointment to see your GP if you're finding it difficult to get to sleep or stay asleep and it's affecting your daily life – particularly if it has been a problem for a month or more and the above measures have not helped. Your GP may ask you about your sleeping routines, your daily alcohol and caffeine consumption, and your general lifestyle habits, such as diet and exercise. They will also check your medical history for any illness or medication that may be contributing to your insomnia. Your GP may suggest keeping a sleep diary for a couple of weeks to help them gain a better understanding of your sleep patterns.
sinusitis is a common condition in which the lining of the sinuses becomes inflamed. It's usually caused by a viral infection and often improves within two or three weeks.
yellow discharge from nose, green discharge from nose, green mucus, yellow mucus, blocked nose, sinus headache, toothache, reduced sense of smell, bad breath 
painkillers such as paracetamol or ibuprofen, using nasal decongestants (these shouldn't be used for more than a week)
warm compresses can ease pain in the nose and sinuses, also saline nose drops are safe to use at home.
rest as sinusitis often happen at cold and flu season, consume any drugs that is recommended by a doctor.
Sunburn is skin damage caused by ultraviolet (UV) rays. It usually causes the skin to become red, sore, warm, tender and occasionally itchy for about a week. The skin will normally start to flake and peel after a few days and will usually fully heal within seven days.
blistering of skin, swelling of skin, chills, high temperature, dizziness, feeling sick
pain reliver like ibuprofen (advil and motrin) and naproxen may help reduce the pain, topical over-the counter (OTC) may help reducing the symptomps.
apply cool fluid to your burnt skin, it could be water, milk, or yogurt. Try consuming Vitamin-E. 
take cool bath and moisturise your skin, also keep hydrated. allow any blister skin to heal and take extra care of your skin after it heals. Keep away from sun whilst healing is going
testicular cancer
cancer of the testicle is one of the less common cancers and tends to mostly affect men between 15 and 49 years of age. The most common symptom is a painless lump or swelling in one of the testicles. It can be the size of a pea or it may be much larger.
mumps on the scrotum, ache in the scrotum, heaviness in scrotum, swelling in testicle, lump in testicle, different size of testicle
medicine depends on the type of testicular cancer, please visit the doctor if you found similar symptoms.
please consider treatment to a doctor, don’t try healing it yourself.
The first treatment option for all cases of testicular cancer, whatever the stage, is to surgically remove the affected testicle (an orchidectomy).For stage 1 seminomas, after the testicle has been removed, a single dose of chemotherapy may be given to help prevent the cancer returning. For stage 1 non-seminomas, close follow-up (called surveillance) may also be recommended. For stage 2, 3 and 4 testicular cancers, 3 to 4 cycles of chemotherapy are given using a combination of different medications.
testicular cancer
cancer of the testicle is one of the less common cancers and tends to mostly affect men between 15 and 49 years of age. The most common symptom is a painless lump or swelling in one of the testicles. It can be the size of a pea or it may be much larger.
Aldika
ananta
sakit pala
ketawa
mama
sasas
